As I mentioned in the introduction to this section cotland doesn't have its own IO classes.
So what it's done is it's basically Takht extension functions onto the existing Java IO classes so when
you do IO in cotland you're always using the IO classes in the JDK.
Now every saying Katlin to do with IO is in the Katlin dot IO package.
So let's go take a look at it.
We'll go up to the browser and we'll see what Cartland has added.
So there are a couple of classes here to help with walking the file tree.
And there's one to do with recursively copying files and there are a bunch of extension functions and
other things that are tagged with JVM meaning you can only use them when you target the JVM.
And that's because as I've said Cartland uses a JDK classes for IO.
So let's click on the Javid I O dot filing here and now we can see the extension functions that have
been added to the Javid I showed up file class.
So there's a whole bunch in here that you can now use with a file instance an extension function is
a syntactical illusion.
The file class isn't being extended but you can invoke these functions with an instance of the file
class.
All right so let's go back to intelligent now.
So I've created a new project here and I've added a test file text file into the project and I put it
right under the project node because that's the working directory for the project.
And that way I won't have to type out a directory.
I can just reference's file because the default directory is the working directory.
So let's look at that file and you'll see it's really simple it's just a text file with five lines in
it.
So let's go back to Courtland.
I've created a main function and we're going to read our test Walda textfile.
So we're going to create a file instance so I'll save file and as I said I can just reference text file
test file that text directly without having to specify the directory because it's in the working directory
and that's the default.
Now if we go to the declaration of file Let's go to the declaration and if we pop on up to the top we'll
see that it's our good friend Javid that Iowa file.
So as I said cotland does not have its own IO classes.
So what we're doing here was we're actually creating an instance of Javid.
I showed up file and that's why that import statement has been created for us.
I'll just close down the file here.
So the next thing we're going to do because we want to read the file is we're going to call a function
called reader.
And if we pop on over now and look at the declaration for this function we'll see that it's a extenstion
function on the file class.
So we have filed reader and as you know now that means that we can use an instance of the file class
to call this function.
Now the comment says it returns a new file reader what it actually returns is an input stream reader
and we'll see also that the default char set is UTF 8 and that's fine with us so we're not passing a
parameter back here in our code we're not passing a parameter here.
But if you wanted a char set that's not UTF 8 then you would have to specify the char set as a parameter.
So basically what we've done so far if we were writing Java this won't compile but we've basically said
new input stream reader and we've said new file input stream reader new file test files.
T x t and we specified UTF 8.
So this is the this call here is the equivalent of this.
So Catlin has added an extension function.
This is really common so cotland has added an extension function so you don't have to do what you do
in Java.
And chain all these IO classes together you can just instantiate a file and then say I want a reader.
And this is what you're going to get.
I'll just comment that out.
OK so going back toward Cartland code if we type datt Now we'll see all the functions that we can call
and some might look familiar and some won't.
Now we want to read the entire file.
So we're going to start with a function called Read O-lines.
So we're going to use this function right here and I'll store it into a variable called lines.
So vowel lines equals file dot reader do not read lines.
This function returns a list of string.
And of course each string will be a line in the file.
So once we've read in all the lines we can then loop through them so we can say lines drop for each
Felis just print line it.
So it will refer to each item in our string list and of course each item in a string list is a line
in the file so we should have a string list and each string will be one of these lines so our list should
be a length of 5 and will have 5 entries in it.
And the first century will be this line 1 etc..
So let's run now.
And sure enough here is the content of our file.
So let's take a look at the read lines function.
Now let's go over and look at the declaration for that.
And we'll see a comment that says Do not use this function for huge files.
Now this function reads the entire file into memory in one go so you don't want to use it for large
files.
But for our little 5 line file it's fine.
Also the function closes the stream for us.
That's not stated in the documentation because the docs only tell us when we have to close the stream
and we don't have to in this case so it doesn't mention anything and will see an example in a minute
of when we do have to explicitly close the stream.
So let's go back to our CANTLIN code and let's just delete the read lines for a minute and press dot
again and let's see what else is available and we'll see that there is also a read text function.
But if I select that and then I go over and look at the declaration for it will see that we get a string
back so we get the entire file as one string and we'd have to parse the string to get each of our lines
and there's no reason for us to do that when we can just use the read lines function.
Also you'll notice that we'd be responsible for closing the reader it says note in the caller's responsibility
to close this reader.
So unless you want to read the entire contents of a file into a single string.
This isn't the function to use.
But let's go ahead and use it anyway because we like to try things out.
Now just before we do notice that this is an extension function to the reader class not the file class
and of course that makes sense because we're not calling this with a file instance we're calling it
with a reader instance.
So as we've already done we can easily change the function to call read text.
But what about closing the stream.
The documentation stated that we're responsible for that.
So how do we do this.
Do we save the reader into a variable and then call close on it when we're done.
Wow that's one way we could do it.
Let's do it that way first.
So let's change our code a little bit.
Well say Val reader and so we've got a reference to our reader and then we'll save Val.
Lines equals reader.
Read text.
We'll print the lines and now we can do it like this.
We've only got the one string so we don't need to loop.
And then we want to say reader got close.
So we've read our file and we're now closing the reader.
Let's go ahead and run
and even though we're reading the string the whole file is one string because our file contains new
lines we're still going to see the nice printout.
So we're still going to see each line separately.
So that's one way that we can use a function that requires us to close the resource.
And so we can just save the resource into a variable use it and then close it.
But there's another way that we can do this and that's to use the use function.
So let's change our code and then we'll discuss what's going on.
So I'm actually going to get rid of all of this and I'm going to say Val vow lines equals file test
file text dot reader dot use.
And then in here I'm going to say I read or read text and then I'll just go ahead and print line print
line lines.
All right.
So first of all this is a lot more concise.
We had four lines of code before and we've managed to get it down to two.
Now let's take a look at the declaration for use.
So it says that it executes the given block on this resource and then closes it down correctly whether
an exception is thrown or not.
And we'll see that we have to call this function with an instance that implements close of all.
And this is the same in job if you want to use try with resources you can only do that with a resource
that implements close of.
So the use function closes the stream for us.
And in this case the resource is the reader.
So we're calling use on the reader so once the lambda has finished executing use We'll go ahead and
close the reader.
So let's go ahead and run
and we'll see that we get the same result.
All right.
Can we use a buffered reader rather than a reader.
Sure you can just change this to Bufford reader.
And now we're using a buffered reader rather than a reader and if we run
we'll get the same result.
OK so one rule of thumb is that functions with use in the name will close the resource for you.
Now there is one exception to this.
There is another version of the read text function that will close the resource.
The one we're using won't do that but there is also a read text extension function for the File class
not the reader class so let's try using that one.
So I'm going to overwrite what we have here now and all cebú lines equals file test file that text Daut
read text.
So here we're calling the other version of the text function.
That is an extension function to the file class.
So now let's print the lines we got.
And if we run we'll see that we get the same result.
But let's take a look at this function.
Now this other version of read text OK we'll see that it doesn't tell us that we have to close a file.
It closes the file for us.
This version is not recommended on huge files and in fact it has an internal limitation of two gigabytes.
So this one has a hard limit of the size of the file that you can use that you can read using the function.
So file that rechecks closes the resource for you but it has a 2 gig limit.
Now if we go back to the reader's rate text function we'll see that it does not close the resource for
you but it also doesn't have a limit on the file size.
All right.
So we've seen reads lines and read text and both of these read the entire file at once.
But let's suppose we have a huge file and we don't want to read the entire file at once.
We want to read the file one line at a time.
Or maybe we just want to read one line at a time because we don't need to read the entire file.
Maybe we just need the first five lines.
So for this we'll use the for each line function just like the for each function.
It takes a lambda and just like for each.
It's a loop.
So let's go back to our Katlin file here and let's change our code to use it.
So we'll say file test file that T T Dot reader dot for each line.
And now we just give it a lambda and we want to print each line.
So this looks really similar to what we did with red lines but instead of reading the entire file in
one shot it's going to read a line at a time.
So in this case as usual it will be each line in the file and when we run we'll see the same result
when I converted the text adventure application at the beginning of the Course.
This is what I used to read in the data files for the text adventure application.
Now this function doesn't have use in its name but if we go to the declaration
we'll see that it does close the reader for us so the use in the function name means that it definitely
closes or the rule of thumb is that it will close.
It closes the resource for you.
So if a function has use in its name you normally you don't have to worry about closing the resource.
If a function doesn't have use in its name just check the declaration you might have to close the resource
or the function might take care of it for you.
And why don't we have to close the resource for this while this is using the use lines function and
we could also have used that directly.
So here is use in the function name and this this for each line is basically just deferring to the use
lines function and that closes the resource.
And as I just said we could use that directly.
So let's go back to our CANTLIN file and let C's use lines instead of for each line so we can just say
use lines.
But if we don't do anything more than that and we just run we'll see that we have a sequence.
So we need to put a terminal operation in here to actually get our lines.
And so we can't just say print line anymore we're going to say I dot for each
print line I-T.
So this I-T in here is actually the sequence number saying for each item in the sequence we want to
print it.
So now if we run we'll see that we're seeing Air Lines from the file but this is a lot more verbose
for each line is more concise and it conveys more information actually about what you're doing.
And it's basically a convenience function.
So let's let's go back to using for each line.
And now we can just go ahead and print our line directly.
All right so that's really all there is to reading text files in the next video will.
We'll talk about binary files and we'll also talk about try with resources so see if.